The code and dataset used for the article on "Predicting Polymer Properties Based on Wavelet Transform and Transformer".
1. "SMILES.csv" is the dataset of polyimides used in this work, sourced from an open-access dataset published by Volgin et al. in their 2022 research: https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.2c04649.
2. "Training_main.py" is the main code corresponding to this work. This chapter explores the use of wavelet transform for multi-level decomposition of the Morgan fingerprints of polyimides, extracting both low-frequency and high-frequency features to enhance the accuracy and noise robustness of molecular representation. Subsequently, the Transformer model's self-attention mechanism is employed to integrate multi-scale features and model long-range dependencies. Furthermore, Bayesian optimization is utilized to adaptively adjust the wavelet decomposition levels and Transformer hyperparameters, combined with the Adam optimizer, L2 regularization, and early stopping strategies to prevent overfitting. Finally, the performance of the predictive model is comprehensively evaluated based on regression model evaluation metrics.
3. "bayesian_optimization_result.csv"contains all the hyperparameter combinations and their corresponding evaluation metrics of the predictive model obtained during the Bayesian optimization process using the method described in this work.
4. “Validation_R²_cumulative_maximum_progress.py" is the code for generating Figure 8. Progression of Cumulative Maximum Validation R² during Bayesian Optimization.
5. “Bayesian_optimization_result_visualization.py” is the code for generating Figure 9. Bayesian Optimization of Wavelet Transform Parameters: Effects on Validation R² Metrics.
